
From Tony_Ortega@newtimes.com Mon Jan 19 11:38:00 1998
Date: Fri, 16 Jan 98 14:23:33 MST
From: Tony Ortega <Tony_Ortega@newtimes.com>
To: Steve Ford
Subject: Re[2]: Robert Burnham

     I'm an amateur astronomer, and it seems like I've had the Celestial 
     Handbook forever. Occasionally, I would wonder about Burnham and 
     always assumed he was the Burnham writing articles in Astronomy 
     magazine.
        A couple of years ago I decided to find out more about him. I went 
     to the Phoenix city library, and after a couple of hours of research, 
     learned two things: there were two Robert Burnhams, and the Burnham 
     who had written the Handbooks seemed to have published almost nothing 
     else. I also found the 1982 self-interview in Astronomy, which showed 
     what a character Burnham was. I put the information into a folder and 
     stuffed it into my desk, figuring I'd get back to it some time.
        Fast forward to May of 1997: I've written a couple of Focal Points 
     for Sky & Telescope, and I'm friends with Tom Polakis, a frequent 
     contributor to both S&T and Astronomy magazines. The two of us take 
     our annual trip to the Riverside Telescope Makers Conference in 
     California, and on the way, to pass the time, we brainstorm astronomy 
     story ideas. That's when I tell Tom about my earlier research about 
     Burnham and tell him I'd love to find Burnham and interview him.
        Tom tells me to call Brian Skiff, a friend of his who's an 
     astronomer at Lowell. Skiff in turn put me in contact with Norm 
     Thomas. Thomas laid out much of the story for me and he and Skiff gave 
     me access to Lowell materials. Finding Viola Courtney was the real 
     coup, and that's when my training as an investigative journalist 
     really paid off. She had a wealth of materials. A trip to San Diego to 
     find the grave site over Labor Day weekend, with stops at Reuben H. 
     Fleet Space Theater and the Golden West Hotel, finished off the 
     reporting. Then I spent a week writing.
        So, yes, I did all of the leg work. But I couldn't have done it 
     without the help of Tom, Brian, Norm, et al. They know I'm eternally 
     grateful.
     
     Tony
